Alright, so in this lecture, we're going to step back a little bit and look at the historical
background of OpenClaw. Now this is important because before we start using tools like
OpenClaw for reverse engineering or automation, we need to understand where it came from and
why it became such a big deal so quickly. What you see is actually quite interesting.
OpenClaw didn't come from a big company, it didn't start as a billion dollar project,
it started as something very small and then exploded into a global movement.
So first, who actually created OpenClaw?
It was created by Peter Steinberger, he's an Austrian developer and entrepreneur.
And importantly, he already had experience building serious developer tools, for example
PSPDFKit.
But what's interesting here is this, OpenClaw wasn't originally meant to be a huge platform,
it started as a weekend experiment, just something he was building on the side.
And this is a pattern you see very often in tech.
of the biggest ideas start as small experiments.
Now let's talk about the core idea behind OpenClaw. This is probably the most important
concept in this entire lecture. The philosophy is AI should not just answer, it should do
things. Now, think about that for a moment. Most AI tools, like traditional chatbots,
they respond to you. You ask a question, they give an answer. But OpenClaw shifts this completely.
of just answering, it takes action. It can send messages, run workflows, control systems. So this
is a transition from passive AI to active agent-based AI. And this idea is what made OpenClaw
so powerful. All right, now let's look at how OpenClaw evolved over time. We'll go through this
step by step. It starts in late 2025. Then very quickly, within just a few months, we see rebranding,
explosive growth and global adoption so this is not a slow story this is a very
fast moving timeline so in november 2025 open claw was first
released but not under that name it was originally called cloudbot
at that stage the idea was already there an ai agent connected to messaging apps
capable of executing real-world tasks so even in the earliest version the concept
of autonomous agents was already present. Now, very quickly after that, in January 2026,
things started changing. The project went through multiple names. Cloudbot, then to Modbot,
then to OpenClaw. Now, this might sound messy, but actually it tells us something important.
The development cycle was extremely fast. The community was actively influencing direction.
some of the changes were due to trademark issues others were just improvements in branding but
overall this shows rapid iteration now this is where things get really interesting between
january and february 2026 open claw experienced explosive growth we're talking about 100 000
github stars in just weeks nearly 250 000 by march millions of users interacting with it
this is extremely rare most open source projects take years to reach this level
open claw did it in weeks by march 2026 open claw crossed over 250 000 github stars and at that
point it became one of the fastest growing open source projects in history now to put this into
perspective projects like linux took years to build that level of traction so what we're seeing
here is not normal growth this is historical level acceleration after that open claw moved
into a global adoption phase it started being used by developers startups even solo entrepreneurs
and importantly it was integrated into real systems enterprise workflows automation pipelines
messaging ecosystems so it moved from being just a tool into something used in real world operations
then in february 2026 we see a major validation moment the creator peter steinberger joins open
ai now this is significant because it shows recognition from one of the top ai organizations
in the world and at the same time open claw starts transitioning from a project into an ecosystem
with more structured governance and long-term direction so the question now is why did open
claw grow so fast there are four main reasons and we'll go through each one first and most important
ai that actually does things this is fundamentally different from chat based ai instead of just
generating text it performs actions sending messages automating workflows interacting
with systems and this is what people really wanted second timing open claw was built at
exactly the right moment right after gpt models matured cloud became powerful mcp style integrations
became possible so the technology stack was finally ready third open source anyone could
modify it extend it run it locally and this created massive community involvement people
contributed features improvements and the project grew very quickly fourth this idea of the one
person company. OpenClaw made it possible for a single individual to automate entire workflows.
Tasks that used to require multiple people can now be handled by AI agents.
And this idea alone drove a lot of global interest.
So if we zoom out, what does OpenClaw really represent? It represents a shift from tools to
agents, apps to ecosystems, users to operators. We are moving into a world where AI doesn't just
assist you it acts on your behalf all right so that brings us to the end of this lecture
now you understand where open claw came from how it evolved and why it became so important so
quickly in the next lectures we're going to move from theory into actually using open claw in
practice so stay with me that's where things get really interesting and as always thank you for
watching